hey guys the fact that I'm recording in
China actually does still influence what
I do and how I do it in this video what
I'd really like is actually to go back
to to put in a clip from an older video
I have that's called real politics fake
diet there's a nice moment in that video
you know all unscripted memmer Hurst
where I just replied to another vegan
who was presuming who was talking about
how veganism was about looking like
freely and where I just said
spontaneously like um I don't think
veganism is about how you look or who
you look like
you know I don't think veganism is about
looking like freely and I don't think
veganism is about looking like Patrick
Stewart you know or anyone else it's
just a moment that came up spontaneously
now because I'm in China and because
uploading is really difficult
I actually am I'm not gonna add that in
if I get into the editor and adding
clips it it increases the file size and
I don't know if I can get this on a
youtube at all when the files get too
large but you know in this video what
I'm responding to is a whole whole genre
of videos here on YouTube but also one
particular example from a very
successful young youtuber named Claire
Michelle now some of you guys get and
some of you guys don't get the tone with
which I comment on this phenomenon of
younger primarily female vegans creating
a public image themselves on the
internet and then you know they
basically start to profit from the image
politics now I know what it's like to
get money when you're still in your
teens uh when I think I was 16 but maybe
I was still 15 when I first started
publishing articles you know in in small
magazines but back then whether I made
$200 or $400 as a journalist a
journalist you know at a very very low
level but um
when you're still living with your
parents you're not paying your own rent
a little bit of money like that a few
hundred dollars kind of a big impact on
your life and it may have a big impact
on how you perceive yourself in my case
it didn't what wasn't an ego trip for me
public publishing few articles didn't
didn't mess me up too much but sure a
few hundred dollars to go a long way so
it's very easy for me to imagine how a
few hundred dollars from YouTube talking
about your life talking about beauty or
putting on a bikini and filming yourself
at the beach I definitely understand
that that can powerfully shape how you
perceive yourself how you're living your
life and so on um what I'm really
responding to in this video right now
recorded at 5:30 a.m. in China I've been
getting up early my video yesterday was
recorded at 4:30 a.m. I think um you
know I really can relate to exactly 50%
of the discourse that I get from people
at Claire Michele and then there's a
flipside there's another 50% that leaves
me cold and that I feel I have to
respond to negatively I mean negatively
in an almost logical sense here pointing
out the opposite pointing out the other
side I see these young women primarily
coming in the internet I know just one
young man who's in this category they're
probably a couple young men doing the
same thing but I see these young women
coming on at the Internet and they kind
of present a philosophy that life is not
about being as skinny as possible that
life is not about being as as beautiful
as possible and I realize they're saying
that because they themselves are under
pressure quite literally to appear in a
bikini on Facebook on Instagram on their
YouTube channel that's actually how
they're earning their money and in many
of these cases these young women have
either dropped out of university or
dropped out of high school or have just
decided not to enroll in university at
all to take this on as a kind of
short-term career path as being a
self-made model self-made Internet
personality what have you so there is
real pressure on them to be blunt to
exploit their own sexuality to us
their own image I'm you know they're
doing it um you know that that's very
directly what they're you know you their
internet presence is based on and
what-have-you
but again I really do sympathise I
really do understand that they have a
kind of philosophical reaction to that
of saying look this is not who I really
am this is not what life is really about
life in so Claire Michelle in the video
I just watched she says when you're 80
years old and you look back on your life
when you look back in your life from a
distance at an old age do you think
you're really gonna remember that you
maintained a size zero figure do you
think you're really gonna remember how
you looked in a bikini or that you
maintained certain physical features
like a thigh gap that some women strive
for that you worked so hard to get
certain results and she says no you know
that she is in effect saying this is not
the meaning of life this is not what
your gonna look back on and I'm valuing
what's gonna stay with you
so that first 50% of the argument I
really do sympathize with I sympathize
with why they're saying it I sympathize
with what they're saying and I
sympathize with the whole direction
they're moving it but then the next 50%
is that she goes on to argue as I've
seen other or others argue others in
this kind of genre or in this category
of vegans we're just talking about
vegans here but still it's it's a huge
kind of genre right now in terms of the
number of viewers it's huge and in terms
of the cultural influence probably a lot
of young women are being influenced
about this in a sense a lot of young men
there be what's by this to probably
having a very different effect on the
male audience but the next 50% of what
she does is then to go on to argue for
what she thinks is meaningful and
important by contrast and like many
other young women in this genre what
she's really arguing for is the the
importance of what I call the permanent
vacation even though I think in her case
I think it's just a temporary vacation i
if you watch earlier videos in my
channel here I'm not against vacations
if you want to go on vacation for two
weeks fine
but I I do not think young people should
drop out of college to go on vacation
forever or I don't think they should
give up their ambitions or career paths
or stop trying to make the world a
better place so they can go on vacation
and I do not think you should convince
yourself that your vacation itself is is
a form of activism that the vacation
makes the world a better place because
it doesn't but vacations are not evil
I'm not I'm not against vacations so
she's somewhat vaguely argues that what
will stay with you what you will
remember are doing wonderful things like
traveling like going on vacation like
going to Italy or I don't know going to
Thailand Thailand is another example and
spending time with your friends with
people you love I think she just talks
about friends not family but whatever so
going on vacation Italy and spending
time with those friends that these kinds
of happy memories of the happy memories
of this kind are what will really stay
with you when you're 80 years old or
what matters to them now I'm 37 I've got
to tell you I really disagree with that
I'm gonna give you a couple of examples
from my youth of what really stays with
me and of what really shapes me as a
person and it's probably not what Claire
Michelle would expect it's not what many
be Ginsburg
maybe if you're watching this you're
over 50 years old it's also not what
you'd expect and this channel I just
remind you guys it contains a lot of
very negative reflections and how awful
University is my experience University
in Canada is uniformly negative I've got
only bad things to say about University
so please do not think that this is a
kind of uncritical endorsement of paying
thousands of dollars in tuition as an as
a pretext to read a stack of books but
look you know um I did research in might
when I was a normal undergraduate
student Normal University aged kitty-kat
normal crappy university degree I just
got an assignment to do an essay on the
history of the civil war in Sudan and
the assignment was crappy the professor
was crappy the whole class was crappy it
was a lousy course of
Laozi University and I got a lousy great
I mean it did too well on the test I
didn't do well on paper whatever you
want to say uh but you know I sat down
with a stack of books and I did some
research on the history of the civil war
in the Sudan and the guy who graded the
paper didn't care and didn't know what
the civil war in Sudan was some ta the
whole context was completely uninspiring
and frankly dehumanizing and you know
there was no positive social interaction
outside of it I didn't have a nice
conversation with the prof or the TA or
anyone in the class about the civil wars
have completely isolated have this
assignment sit down with the books but
you know in many ways that research I
did on the civil war in Sudan it still
is with me today it still is something
that shapes Who I am
it influenced the man I became it
influences how I think and feel about
politics even though you know now I very
intentionally performing this video I
did not open up Wikipedia I did not open
up Google and check anything when I
reflect on it how much can i really
remember from that reading or that
research how you know how many names of
cities in Sudan could I even recall if I
force myself to you know that fades the
names of the cities obviously the dates
and locations of the battles and so that
don't remember at all how many of the
names of the political leaders the Prime
Minister's or the rebel leaders could I
remember maybe one maybe all the other
names have faded except one those
details are not what stayed with me but
in a very real sense the process of
learning and a certain kind of political
perspective that came out of that
research really did stay with me and you
know is that more emotional or is that
more intellectual I think probably a
type of emotional change maybe a type of
appreciation that you gain from doing
research of that kind
that that stays with you and it has an
emotional effect just a few days ago
here at my school I was talking to some
much younger men who I assume were
around 25 years old um and the civil war
in the Sudan came up amazingly you know
it's very rare my whole life how often
is como conversation and I remember I
just said them yeah you know I stated my
paying one cents
I said oh if you're interested you know
you can look into it and one guy who was
who was British the British are always
more easily offended than Americans and
the stuff he actually found that
offensive that I would just use the
phrase I just don't you know if you
hunch no more you know you should you
can look into it he said you know how
dare you say you know you know in my
whole life what I read maybe six books
about that Civil War but obviously the
vast majority people are trying to have
not even read a Wikipedia article now
you know I'm mentioning this Sudan is so
cut off from all my other interests in
life in other videos in the past I
mention the research they don't Haiti
the political history of Haiti that also
really influenced me really shaped me in
a lot of ways even though Haiti and
Sudan have nothing to do with my
interest in life if you guys have
watched this channel I mean on the one
hand you hear me talk about veganism but
also you know Cambodia Laos Thailand
China etc and at the time I did the
research I could not have known what it
would mean to me or how much it would
mean to me especially given how crappy
the whole context of the University
course was that there's nothing nothing
inspirational nothing emotionally
rewarding or warm or entertaining about
it unlike maybe going to a beach in
Italy with your friends and taking
pictures of yourself in a bikini and
putting them on the Internet
I think for many young people you can't
know that at the time and even now so
now I'm 37 just a couple of months ago I
did a bunch of research on and wrote a
long essay on a political Massacre a
political disaster where thousands of
people
died in the year 1920 and this massacre
involved Russia involved Japan involved
China out in East Asia where those
countries overlap so it's in Russian
territory but in East Asia fascinating
but also again that political history
has an emotional impact on me I think I
broke down weeping twice and doing the
research not open weeping but I had
tears come to my eyes because yeah I was
reading detailed accounts of you know
mass murder and including perspectives
of survivors people who were victims who
survived people who committed the crimes
who survived and later reflected on it
you know what I personally find tragic
are moving about it and different things
I could say even now
even in my late 30s there's a sense in
which I can say to you I don't know how
that impacts me how that changes me but
I can tell you one thing I've been all
around the world I've been to beautiful
places I've seen beautiful things yes I
have spent time with friends I'm not
especially into beaches but I've been to
a couple beaches and I've been to
beautiful mountains I've been to
beautiful rivers I've seen things that
are both beautiful and horrific I've
seen bomb craters and I've seen men
living their whole lives with craters in
their skin craters in their faces from
bullet wounds from war I've got to tell
you just as Claire Michelle has come on
and said it's not your bikini it's not
your body that's gonna stay with you for
the rest of your life I have to tell you
also it's not tourism it's not seeing
beautiful things that's gonna stay with
you for the rest of your life and then
you're gonna look back on and think is
meaningful when you're 80 years old and
the university system as I know it which
is primarily at the university system is
deeply flawed but that does not mean
that research itself is meaningless that
does not mean that learning itself is
meaningless and if you had the
self-discipline to challenge yourself to
sit down and do research on some
thing as random as the Sudan or Haiti or
Cambodia or anything then you wouldn't
need a university but as terrible as my
experience the University is with
organized education of every kind is I
remain deeply grateful for the fact that
I had that experience that I had the
opportunity in the conditions to sit
down and learn about those political
episodes and when I'm 80 years old if I
live to be 80 years old I will still
look back and I will know that that
really has changed me that has shaped me
that is profoundly that's changed the
world as I know it and it's changed the
way I live in this world